Jerry: *singing* Last King Christmas last arrived!

Jerry: *singing* In the Christmas 56 Christmas! *stops singing and smells the ham* Mmm… Jerry, you are really 89 giving it to this ham.

Jerry: Um, Merry Christmas? *puts his hands on his hips* Helloooo? My parents are coming over for the first time in years! Can we stow the gadgets and look alive?

Jerry: Good one.

Beth: Hey man!

Jerry: You ‘hey man’! This holiday is about humanity.

Morty: *not looking up from his tablet* You know, I thought it was about being born half-God or something.

Jerry: Okay, whatever. All electronic items are going in the stocking. Now.

Morty: *hands over his tablet* Ohhhh…

Summer: Dad, I’m not giving you my phone.

Jerry: Put it in the stocking, Summer, or I’m joining Facebook.

Rick: *offscreen* Ho ho ho, everybody.

Jerry: More like whoa whoa whoa. What is this? My parents are coming!

Rick: Calm down Jerry, this is Ruben, an old friend.

Ruben: Pearl Harbor.

Rick: I check in on him once a year and give him a little *burp* medical *burp* evaluation.

Beth: Aw, Dad… That is so sweet.

Jerry: *squinting suspiciously* Yeah, it is… I don’t get it.

Ruben: Korea.

Rick: Don’t worry about your C-C-Christmas, Jerry. *leads Ruben away* Ruben and I’ll be in my workshop while you have another day in Phil Collins’ proverbial paradise.

Jerry: Huh. You think you know a guy. (The doorbell rings.) Okay, there’s my parents. Now remember, no TV, no phones, no laptops, we are connecting this Christmas, like old-school Jews on a Saturday. *opens the door* Hey hey!

Leonard: Merry Christmas, son.

Jerry: Oh, hi. Can I help you?

Joyce: Jerry, this is Jacob. *takes Jacob by the arm* Didn’t you get our text message?

Beth, Summer, and Morty: No.

Jacob: You must be Jerry! That’s a fine lookin’ apron. William Sonoma?

Jerry: *smiling uncomfortably* I wish… But thank you. *closes the door* So… you’re a…friend of the family…?

Leonard: *puts an arm around Jacob’s shoulders* The way we see it, he’s a part of the family.

Jerry: Wow!

Joyce: After your father’s brush with cancer and losing your uncle, we looked at life and wondered how have we spent it? And how do we spend the rest of it? What are we going to be when we die? A list of fears and questions, or a collection of real experiences?

Beth: Holy crap, Joyce. That’s amazing.

Leonard: Then Jacob came into our lives. We’re learning to live again.

Jacob: All three of us.

Jerry: …Cool… Eggnog?

Jacob: Now we are talkin’! This man’s got the apron and the eggnog, huh?

Rick: Hi Joyce, Leonard. *looks at Jacob* Hello there.

Jacob: Merry Christmas, man.

Rick: Morty! A moment of your time?

Rick: He’s in bad shape, Morty.

Morty: Aw geez, Rick! What did you do?

Rick: Gee, thanks Morty. What kind of monster do you think I am? I-I’m sittin’ here trying to save the guy’s life! (Rick straps a pack with a tube onto Morty’s back and puts an earpiece on his head.) I want you to find Dr. Xenon Bloom. He’ll know what’s goin’ on.

Morty: *extremely nervous* Uh… W-W-Where do I find Dr. Bloom?

Rick: In Ruben. *shoves a glass oxygen mask onto Morty’s head*

Morty: Ruben… Minnesota?

Rick: Ruben on the table, Morty! *hooks up the backpack to the helmet* Look, I-I don’t have time for you to wrap your little walnut around everything. *pulls a shrink ray into view and plugs it in* Hold your breath until the process is over or your lungs will collapse.

Morty: W-What proc—

Beth: Hey Dad, where’s Morty?

Rick: He’s busy.

Rick (through Morty’s earpiece): Morty, can you hear me? Head North!

Morty: Rick… Where am I?

Rick: *adjusts his own headset as he stands in the garage* Depending on my aim, you should be just south of the entrance.

Morty (through Rick’s earpiece): The entrance to what?

Rick: Welcome, Morty. (The scene cuts back to Morty’s view from inside Ruben.) Welcome… (Morty gasps.) …to Anatomy Park!

Rick: It’s a little business venture I’ve been cookin’ up on the side with Dr. Bloom. (Morty enters the park.) An amusement park inside a human body. Science isn’t cheap, Morty. This should really help put a dent in the overhead.

Morty: Oh my God! This is insane! Spleen Mountain? Bladder Falls? Pirates of the Pancreas?

Rick: You got a problem with that last one, Morty?

Morty: Huh? No, no, I’m just reading them out loud in the order I’m seeing them.

Rick: Okay, alright, if I sounded a little defensive, it’s because Pirates of the Pancreas was my baby.

Rick: I-I got a lot of push-back when I pitched it, Morty. I guess I’m still a little defensive. Let’s just find Dr. Bloom, alright? I-I’m picking up a distress signal in the liver, Morty.

Rick: Proceed to the liver.

Automated voice: Arriving at ‘Liver’.

Morty: *stumbles forward and hits his helmet on the window* Ow!

Automated voice: Mind the gap.

Rick: Liver’s under maintenance. Ruben’s seen some rough years, Morty. Don’t judge. You don’t agree to have a theme park built inside you if your life’s going great.

Morty: OOOOHHH! Rick, it’s a monster!

Rick: No no, Morty. The only monster here is alco— *belch* —holism. (The wolf is mechanically pulled back into the wall.) That is an animatronic werewolf.

Poncho: Who are you? Answer me! Where did you come from?

Morty: Mmm! M-M-My-my-my Grandpa Rick sent me!

Dr. Bloom: Poncho! That’s quite enough.

Dr. Bloom: Morty, that’s Poncho. (Another man and a girl walk into the room.) This is Roger and Annie.

Morty: *staring sheepishly at Annie* Oh…

Dr. Bloom: And I am Dr. Xenon Bloom.

Rick: Hey Bloom, it’s Rick. What the hell’s goin’ on here?

Dr. Bloom: I don’t know why, but the entire security system has shut down. And I’m afraid the exhibits are unlocked.

Morty: Exhibits?

Dr. Bloom: Anatomy Park’s greatest attraction, young man, isn’t the music or the food or the Pirates of the Pancreas.

Rick: Watch it.

Dr. Bloom: It is first and foremost a living museum of humanity’s most noble and ferocious diseases.

Morty: Diseases?!

Poncho: Hey Doc, I have news for ya. (Hepatitis A lumbers towards the group.) Your living museum is officially a wild safari!

Roger: Hepatitis A! Run!

Jacob: Oh… *leans over and wipes some food from Joyce’s mouth with a napkin* The food goes in your mouth, girl!

Joyce: We can go into detail later, son.

Leonard: Now wait, there, there’s no point to secrecy. Let’s all live and die honestly. Your mother and I have shared forty years of each other, mind, body, and soul. (Jerry and Jacob smile at each other, but when Jacob looks away, Jerry’s smile becomes a glare.) And when minds and souls are joined for eternity, and when eternity is at the door, it’s an invitation to let go of the body, and an opportunity to share and experiment.

Jerry: Dad, please, what are you saying?

Beth: Whatever it is, it’s beautiful Leonard. *glares at Jerry* And we support you.

Jerry: Speak for yourself! Because it, heheh, it sounds like you’re about to say Jacob is your lover.

Leonard: No no no no no no. (Jerry sighs in relief.) Jacob is your mother’s lover. (Jerry again looks disturbed.) I watch them. Sometimes from a chair, sometimes from a closet. Almost always dressed as Superman.

Jacob: Oh… *reaches across the table and puts a hand atop theirs*

Jacob: Jerry, this ham’s got to be all you, right? It’s in-cred-i-ble.

Summer: *smirks* Happy human holiday, Dad.

Poncho: AHHHHHH!

Dr. Bloom: Hepatitis won’t follow us into the respiratory system!

Roger: That’s strange… *taps the meter* Air flow is down twenty percent.

Dr. Bloom: So the brain isn’t getting enough oxygen. That’s why security is offline.

Morty: W-Well, I guess we better check it out.

Alexander: Hey, wait for me! *removes the head of his costume*

Dr. Bloom: *points his cane at Alexander* Put that back on!

Roger: If we got up to the bronchial catwalk, we could look for blockage.

Morty: *raises his hand* I’ll go. *glances at Annie* Heheh…

Poncho: Don’t be a hero, kid.

Morty: I’m not. I’m doin’ it because it’s fun. *he hops from frond to frond*

Poncho: *cocks his gun* We shouldn’t be here.

Dr. Bloom: Whatever you do, don’t fire that thing in here! We must save Ruben. This is my life’s work.

Annie: Ah!

Morty: Whoa! *grabs hold of the catwalk as a fluid drips down onto it* Whoa!

Morty: Oh! What are those things?!

Dr. Bloom: Tuberculosis, coming in fast!

Poncho: *raises gun and starts shooting at the disease* Not faster than a bullet! Ahh!

Dr. Bloom: *grabs Poncho’s arm* No! Do you know what you’ve done?!

Dr. Bloom: Get to the digestive tract! He’s coughing!

Alexander: Waaaah! Don’t let me die!

Rick: Just take a deep breath, Ruben.

Morty: You’re not gonna die! What’s your name?

Alexander: My name is… *his hand slips from Morty’s and he’s coughed up* ALEXANDEEEEEEEER!

Morty: Rick! Ruben’s got tuberculosis!

Rick: Oh, great work, Morty. *pulls a massive syringe form his lab coat* I’ll just cure it, and then—

Rick: Okay. Well I can’t cure death. This is bad, Morty. You’re trapped in a dead man. Listen, if the situation keeps darkening, do yourself a favor—

Rick: —and hop by Pirates of the Pancreas. Obviously I’m biased, but, I think it’s great, Morty.

Rick: *sitting in a lounge chair, pulls out a flask* It’s a bunch of pirates runnin’ around a-a-a- pancreas. We don’t whitewash it either, Morty. The pirates are really rapey. The top priority is to get you guys out of there, but I’m just saying, if that becomes impossible—

Rick: —please, you gotta treat yourself.

Morty: Geez, what’s that horrible smell?

Dr. Bloom: You mean the Panda Express? *chuckles* Kidding, I-I’m kidding. (As he speaks, Poncho and Roger stock up on bottled water from the Panda Express.) The body is beginning to constrict and fill with gas. We’re inside a corpse, my boy. Anatomy Park is doomed.

Morty: Forget about the park, Doctor! How do we get out?!

Dr. Bloom: The digestive tract is the evacuation route. Get it? There’s an emergency station in the colon with a ray that can enlarge us all.

Morty: Everybody! Get to the colon!

Poncho: Now I’m takin’ orders from a twelve-year-old boy?!

Roger: Intestines are ahead to the left. Then the right. Then left. Et cetera.

Morty: Hey, just so you know, I-I’m actually fourteen. So, you know…

Annie: What?

Morty: Not twelve.

Annie: Okay.

Morty: Because he just said I was twelve.

Annie: Oh. Good for you.

Rick (through speaker): Oh. Oh, Morty. Strike one.

Morty: *slumps forward* Nnn…

Animatronics: *singing* It’s a road of laughter, a trail of food. It’s a pathway that breaks up the fat in food. It’s a tube in the chest and it sends out the rest. It’s a small, small intestine!

Roger: It goes on like this for miles…

Dr. Bloom: *excitedly* And then we get to the large intestine!

Poncho: Shh. *shines flashlight* I hear something.

Dr. Bloom: *whispers* Don’t move. Gonorrhea can’t see us if we don’t move.

Dr. Bloom: Wait! I was wrong! I was thinking of a T-rex.

Annie: We’re sitting ducks!

Morty: Doc! Didn’t you say the body was filling up with gas?

Dr. Bloom: Yes. Why?

Poncho: Kid! You’re a genius! *pulls out a match*

Dr. Bloom: Are you mad?!

Morty: *grabs Annie’s hand* Everybody! In here!

Poncho: Hey Gonorrhea! How’s this for a burning sensation?

Summer: *singing* Drummer, drum, drum, drum! Drummer, drum, drum drum drum, Christmas drums!

Leonard: Oh, Summer. Sing it! Haha.

Summer: Christmas drums being played by a boy!

Beth: Jerry, come on. This is what you wanted.

Beth: What? Jerry, let that stuff go, okay? I’m sorry I was a bitch earlier. Let’s just be here.

Ethan: Ugh… Summer!

Summer: *stands up* Ethan, what are you doing here?

Ethan: I’ve been texting you for hours. What the hell?!

Summer: I don’t have my phone! I’m doing a human holiday!

Ethan: Did you even consider how that might make me feel?

Summer: How you feel? Why is everything always happening to you?!

Jerry: *stands up* Summer, do you have a boyfriend?

Ethan: Yeah, do you, Summer?

Summer: I don’t know Ethan, do I?

Jacob: *stands up and puts a hand on Ethan and Summer’s shoulders* Jerry, no disrespect, but you really need to connect more with your family, man.

Poncho: What the hell is that?

Dr. Bloom: The sphincter dam. We built it when Ruben became incontinent, but it was not designed to hold a corpse-load.

Roger: Almost got it. Everybody, move inside the circle!

Morty: Poncho? What is this in your backpack?

Dr. Bloom: That’s bubonic plague! What are you doing with that, Poncho?

Poncho: Everybody get back!

Dr. Bloom: Poncho, you son of a bitch! You released the tuberculosis so you could steal from me?

Morty: AHHHHH!!!

Poncho: Ah! Eh! Get! Get off! *he backs up and falls over the railing* Ahhhh!

Annie: You guys!

Roger: It’s gonna burst! *urges the others on* Go! Go, go, go! *pulls a lever before trying to run after the others but catches his foot in some of the machinery* My foot is stuck!

Annie: No!

Roger: This is okay! It’s okay, just go! Tell my family I love them! They may be hard to find because my wife kept her last name and she made the kids take it too, so, I dunno, you can—

Annie: No!

Jacob: Let me ask you something Ethan. Where’s the anger coming from, man?

Ethan: From Summer being a total bitch!

Jacob: Where’s the anger coming from?

Ethan: …My brother… took me fishing once…in the bushes… *voice begins choking up as tears fill his eyes* I can’t… I can’t! *covers his eyes as he starts to cry* He made me feel like a girl! *sobbing openly* I’m… m-made me a girl!

Jacob: He didn’t make you anything, man. You are who you are. *gestures to Summer* She is who she is. (Summer watches on with a sympathetic expression.) Now you go to her. Brand new.

Ethan: Come here right now!

Summer: Oh my god, I’m so sorry Ethan! *they hug* I love you!

Ethan: I love you so much.

Jerry: Um…

Joyce: You did it again, cubby. Come here.

Jerry: No! Stop! I hate this!

Joyce: Well, Christmas doesn’t revolve around what you hate, son.

Jerry: Well then, I hate Christmas! Enjoy being human! You guys are gross and lame.

Animatronic Ruben: My name’s Ruben Ridley. You’re inside me right now, but by the end of this journey, I’ll be inside all of you.

Animatronic Ruben: My story begins in the dot com crash in the early ‘90s.

Annie: *whispering to Morty* You can put your fingers wherever you want…

Rick (through speaker): Morty, you wanna put it on mute or something? (Annie and Morty both look at Morty’s helmet, startled.)

Rick: I’m trying to concentrate.

Jerry: Ah, Rick?

Rick: *holds up a hand without even looking over at him* Not now, Jerry. I’ve got much, much smaller fish to fry.

Jerry: *enters anyway* I wanted to say I’m sorry I ever judged you. *leans on the ping pong table, looking down at Ruben’s corpse* Right now, you’re my sanest relative.

Rick: Relative… That’s it! Relative size! Jerry, hand me a scalpel and a bundle of dynamite! *into his headset* Morty! Can you get to the left nipple?

Morty: Are you kidding? I’m hoping I can get to both of them, Rick.

Rick (through speaker): Morty, I’m talkin’ about Ruben’s left nipple!

Morty: We need to get to the left nipple!

Dr. Bloom: The body is decaying! (Bits of debris begin to fall from the ‘ceiling’.) The arterial transit system is useless! We can try the service shuttle. It’s connected to the skeletal system. That’s why we call it the Bone Train. *to Annie* Would you like to ride the Bone Train, miss?

Annie: If it’ll get us out of here.

Dr. Bloom: How about you, Morty? Would you like to ride the Bone Train?

Morty: Why are you doing this bit? We’re gonna die. Let’s go.

Jerry: Well, I can see that you’re busy… Merry Christmas, Rick.

Dr. Bloom: There’s no autopilot. One of us will have to stay here and operate it manually.

Morty: …Uh, well…

Dr. Bloom: No, you’re right. It was a dick move for me to even pause like that. This is all my fault. You go on.

Annie: *points* What the hell is that?

Dr. Bloom: E. coli outbreak. Hurry!

Dr. Bloom: Oh wait, there is an autopilot. (E. coli surround him.) WAAAIT! ...OKAY, NEVER MIND, I WANTED TO SACRIFICE MYSELF ANYWAAAAAYYYY!

Annie: They’re chewing through the doors!

Morty: Euuuugh! *grabs a fire extinguisher and beats the E. coli off the train with it* We’re in the areola, Rick! Almost to the nipple! But we’re also in a really bad situation!

Rick: I’m almost there, Morty!

Reporter: Reports are coming in from across the country about what appears to be a giant naked man over the continental United States. We now go to Tom Randolph in New York. Tom?

Tom: Well, his eyes aren’t twinkling, and his dimples aren’t merry, but I’m standing under a nose like a seventy-mile cherry!

Reporter: Thank you, Tom. Let’s go now to Eric McMan in Los Angeles.

Eric: We’ve got feet here on the West Coast, Bill! Giant feet, even relative to the giant man’s size! And you know what they say about that!

Reporter: Well, if the old adage is true, one can only wonder what is going down in the Rocky Mountains.

Morty: Oh my god, the track!

Annie: It’s Hepatitis A!

Annie: The nipple hole…

Morty: It’s beautiful…

Annie: Aw no!

Annie: Whoa! It’s Hepatitis C!

Morty: Um… We… Did we have some sort of relationship with him?

Annie: I… think they’re just like that? I think they’re just good guys.

Morty: Oh. Huh.

Rick: Where’s Dr. Bloom?

Morty: Sorry Rick… He’s dead…

Rick: Goddamn it, Morty, I ask you to do one thing!

Beth: Jerry doesn’t know what he’s missing.

Jacob: He’ll come around, Beth. Christmas is a special time. It has funny ways of bringing families together.

Beth: I dunno, Jacob. Jerry got an invitation to be alive today, and he rejected it. I don’t know if our marriage will—

Summer: It’s raining blood!

Jacob: Listen, find Jerry!

Beth: Oh god.

Beth: Jerry!

Jerry: *stands and hugs her* It’s alright! The TV says there’s nothing to worry about.

Reporter (on TV): The giant naked sky Santa has exploded. Blood and chunks of viscera are raining down on the country. Everything should be fine.

Summer: Dad, can I have my phone back?

Jerry: Sure, sweetie. *pulls out the stocking and gives Summer her phone, then gives Beth her tablet* Everybody, take a device. It’ll help you relax.

Jacob: This is nice.

Jerry: Yeah. *puts an arm around Beth and Jacob* I guess we really learned something this Christmas, Jacob.

Summer: No we didn’t, Dad. No we didn’t.

Annie: Actually, I studied Dr. Bloom’s work. I believe I have the knowledge necessary to create a new, much safer park!

Rick: What about Pirates of the Pancreas…?

Annie: I think it was one of the most underrated attractions.

Rick: Booyah! Hold your breath!

Morty: Hey, wh-wh- What the hell, Rick? What the hell, man? I liked her! I really had somethin’ going there, Rick!

Rick: Yeah, so I heard. You dodged a bullet, Morty, trust me. *whispers* Puffy vagina.

Morty: W-What’s wrong with that? That doesn’t sound like a problem to me! I dunno!

Rick: C’mon. Let’s get some stuffing, I’m starving.

Rick: Oh, unbelievable. We got a bunch of robot computer people sittin’ around with their faces stuffed in computer screens. (No one acknowledges him.) Do you realize Christ was born today? Jesus Christ our Savior was born today! A-A-A-Are you people even human? What kind of Christmas is this?

Annie (through speaker phone): Hey Rick! Rick, can you hear me?

Rick: Loud and clear, Annie.

Annie: Great! We’re also on with Alejandro, our Chief Imaginarian—

Alejandro: Hey Rick.

Annie: Natalie Jacobs and Chris Desiter from Microscopic Marketing, Zach from Organ Concepts and Jamie from New Media.

Rick: Hey everybody.

All: Hey, hi Rick, how’s it goin’. (etc.)

Annie: So. Pirates of the Pancreas.

Rick: Yeah, talk to me.

Alejandro: Hey Rick, it’s Alejandro speaking. Um, so we asked ourselves internally, we asked ourselves over here, “Okay, what does a pancreas do?” (Rick begins to look agitated.) And the answer was, does it make pirates? No. It makes insulin, you know? So we’re starting with a new—

Ethan: So those guys are inside me, huh? Like, building a park?

Rick: Those guys are inside you building a piece of shit, Ethan! They’re inside you building a monument to compromise! Fuck. Fuck those people. Fuck this whole thing, Ethan.

Ethan: … Cool. And who pays me?
